Speaker 1  00:00
We'll give everybody just one more minute to filter in a start.

Speaker 2  00:22
You everybody,

Speaker 1  00:34
welcome to Day 86 of reinvent I mean day one. Sorry, feels like day 86 already. Look. We'll start with a little question for all of you, how many of you guys are here because you have an LLM agent that has more rights in AWS than you can come on? Be honest. Be honest. Yeah, yeah, the rest of your lying so, or you just don't know it yet. But if that's the case, you've come to the right place. So let's talk about granting least privilege access to things that don't have a pulse. I'm kidding. Before we start, I am forced by people in the back of the room who are watching me and making sure I don't get fired today to talk about the safe harbor statement. I will read this in its entirety extremely slowly, and there'll be a quiz at the end. I'm just kidding. The important point here is that we may be talking about things, and in fact, we will be talking about things that are not released yet, so we reserve the right to change our mind. Make it that simple. My name is Wayne Smiley. I'm a principal solution architect on our alliances team, and my job in life at Okta is to cover AWS and Okta. I work with Okta and AWS pretty much all the time. I've been at Okta about five years, and I've been in identity management so long. It didn't have a name when I started. So this is kind of my jam, if you will. And I'll let Joe introduce himself.

Speaker 3  01:52
My name is Joe frisk. I am the CISO for Diane brands. They are the parent company for Applebee's IHOP and fuzzy stocker shop. I've been in the industry for 30 years. I know I get told that I look like Benjamin Button, but I've been in the industry for 30 years, and most of my background had been in finance. I was in head of security for Bank of America's Consumer Bank for about 12 years or so. I was the head of governance, risk and compliance for PwC, and then a couple of other CISO roles in the mix.

Unknown Speaker  02:25
Hi everyone. My name is Tara venkatasen,

Speaker 4  02:35
yeah, so I'm Tara venkatason. I'm a product marketing lead for Okta, supporting the odd zero platform. I work on messaging and positioning for otzero, for AI agent solution and our developer experience solution. And this is my first reinvent and I'm excited to be here. So today we're going to be talking about securing bedrock with autero. We're going to be talking about ought zero for AI agents as well as Agent core. We have a quick demo of that, and then we're going to move into securing quick suite with Amazon Q and Okta. Then we're going to finish with what is cross of access and why it matters. And lastly, we'll wrap up with a Q and A with Joe on dine brands. So to get started, let's talk about Gen AI. So we also have a Gen AI, hype. We might even joke about chat GPT, but the reality is, for developers, the introduction of LLM significantly changed the developer toolkit. AI is not a feature concept. It's a PR, it's a test suite. It's a coding assistant right now. And the question isn't whether or not, do I adopt AI, it's, how do I implement AI into my existing pipelines to maximize developer velocity, and that means adopting tools like quad code or GitHub copilot, but more importantly, it's understanding the fundamentals of pump engineering and maximizing velocity. Now this means that we need to mitigate risk around code quality, data privacy and data security to make sure we have secure AI agents. And we need to get past the AI buzz and focus on the applied application of AI engineering. So we started a world of predictive AI chat box. We then moved to the world of generative AI and now we're in the world of AI agents. You can think of an AI agent as a autonomous coding execution agent. They are designed to manage long running, complex workflows using tools like APIs and internal services. So an AI agent has two primary functions. The first is a human interface. So AI agents have to adjust unstructured data, decipher its context and produce complex results in simple, plain language. The second function is the action. So AI agents have to take human intent and translate that into executable code. That means performing next task by calling and orchestrating APIs, analyzing one time errors and adjustment strategy, and ideally, if we're lucky, having them go for long periods of time with zero human intervention. And one of the biggest risks around AI right now is around security. The industry is constantly talking about it, as you can see from the tweets here. The problem is that developers are just trying to keep pace, and they're relying on DIY solutions to integrate security into their AI applications. We're essentially trying to build new security models on the fly, and this is a bullet proof why you ask? Because this is a brand new attack surface right now. There is no universal blueprint or framework for building AI securely into your into your applications, especially when those applications rely on autonomous agents with access to internal data. This creates vulnerabilities, some of which are not even known yet. And the current state is high risk, high velocity, and when we talk about securing AI agents, we first need to confront some major industry misconceptions. This slide here highlights the six common myths that developers run into when they prioritize speed over security, myths like llms handle authentication sound harmless in a fast paced environment, but they are not if you look closely, you see assumptions being made around user consent and credential handling, and none of these assumptions are strong enough when it comes to building and securing AI agents. The real danger lies in the fact that every single one of these myths lead directly to system breaking risk that's unauthorized data access, users with stale rules, getting agent access massive privacy fines or autographs leading to compliance failures. These are faulty foundations that we must correct before moving forward. Now let's move from the misconceptions to the inevitable reality. This slide shows the inevitable reality and how AI introduces huge risks when those foundational myths are unaggressed. The core issue is that agents are left with over provisioned access and weak authorization, leading again to that unauthorized data access, severe threats of secret leakage and compliance gaps, the traditional security at the front door model just won't work anymore for AI agents. We need to move to integrate governance directly with our Gen AI workflows, using customer identity and access management best principles, the shift from relying on guesswork to implementing governance is how we build successful, secure agents without risking the business.

Unknown Speaker  07:47
Now that we've scared you with the risk and

Speaker 4  07:49
the lack of blueprint, let's talk about the light at the end of the tunnel at bot zero. We pride ourselves in making identity, authentication and authorization developer friendly, and that's no exception when it comes to AI agents. We set out to solve these brand new security problems using secure identity standards and industry best practices, and we've identified four non negotiable requirements that you must build into the foundation of regenerative AI applications. First, AI needs to know who you are. Second, AI needs to be able to call APIs on a user's behalf. Third, AI needs to use async interactions. And fourth, AI must consider user permissions when accessing data. This is why we created odd zero for AI agents, which is generally available today. It's a suite of features that directly solves these complex authentication and authorization requirements for next gen applications. So going back to those four foundational requirements, with user authentication, users can log into your AI agents with token vault. You can connect your you can connect your agents to user apps and give them temporary delegation. With asynchronous authorization, you can add humans approval for critical human actions so they're always in the loop, and this one is key. With fine grained authorization for rag you can get granular with authorization control and ensure that AI agents only have to have access to the data they're intended to we're giving developers the most robust tooling available to ensure stronger security, seamless scalability, and, most importantly, maximum developer efficiency. Your team can stop wasting time coming up with and crafting DIY security solutions and focus 100% on their time building innovative core features. So now I'm going to turn it over to Wayne to talk about how we work with bedrock for agent course.

Unknown Speaker  09:51
So how many guys I'm saying most of you are

Speaker 1  09:56
familiar with bedrock, but how many guys are familiar with Agent core? I'm just kind of curious. A few. Okay, oh, quite a few. Okay. So if, just in case, you're not, you're not familiar with it, Agent core is a new set of pieces that sit on top of bedrock. And really, to speak for AWS, they can do that on their own. But I think the important thing is they're trying to make it easier for you to get things done. One of the components on the agent core is something called agent core identity. The question we get a lot is, well, if I have aging core identity, why? Why would I want to use author on zero? The real question you need to ask yourself is not, should I use odd, zero or

Speaker 1  10:39
even? Core is a strong tool, okay, but it is not a full science platform. It requires, and frankly, has to delegate out to some sort of science tool. And auth zero is the best dedicated tool to do just that. A lot of the things that Tara talked about, fine grain access and the ability to tell the RAD, hey, this information can come in. This information we can't. Can CO out. I'm going to show you this in just a minute, cross app access. We'll talk a lot about that a little bit later, but just I want to put that in the back of your of your brain right now. And of course, token vault, there's a token vault built into agent core, but it's a fairly rudimentary token vault. So for example, if you have an array of tokens or something like that. You're really going to need something like off zero in order to make that happen. And then the human in the memory, again, Tara mentioned this, but we'll do an example in just a second. You'll see why that's important in certain scenarios. And then, of course, because you run an AWS, and we live in AWS, you don't have to re architect everything. It just works. So let's actually take a look at a demo before I start this. I do my own stunts, but I do not do live demo, so sorry. May have made that mistake too many times. This particular chatbot that we're going to show is an AI chatbot for and I kind of for it. And so we're going to see different people ask different questions, and you'll see how that all works. What you're going to see is bedrock agent, core auth zero and Okta all working together to make to make it all work better together. I'm hoping this is actually started, but we can't see that, so we'll find out in a second. Yeah, it is okay, perfect. The first thing we're going to do is log in. If you've used odd zero before, you'll recognize this as a standard on zero login screen. But what we actually did is we connected this to Okta itself, and so we're using Okta workforce to do this authentication. In this case, we're having a regular user go ahead and log in. Great. They've logged in. So the first thing I want to do really quick is show you the token. Now, obviously I've hacked up this this bot to show us this, but the point is, is that a token was passed between on zero and bedrock, so the user was authenticated, and all the rights and roles that they have were brought with it. The rag never saw that, and that is hugely critical, because the last thing you want to do is teach, is teach the rag, your your your tokens. That would be really bad. So let's ask it a question. In this case, the user is when that only she is able to ask in fine grain access, we have told it only she can go and hit the MCP server that has the information of who has access to what group. So she'll go ahead and put in who has access to what or what groups is she in? And you can see she's in the engineering group. So we've done exactly what we want to do. But what about human consent? What does she need to ask something that we want to, that we want to 100% validate, is her when she doesn't? So again, this isn't, this is a it bot. So let's ask it a question of, I need to reset a password for a user. Well, that's a pretty, you know, sensitive thing we're going to do. So she's going to go ahead and ask it that question, and you'll see what's going to happen here is she's going to get a push notification on her phone. She hits approve on that or will in just a second. And once she does that,

Unknown Speaker  13:55
it will execute that action,

Speaker 1  14:01
perfect. So now it's done after done that password. These are all things that can't be done natively with bedrock or AVCO or anything else, but when we layer off zero on top, we're able to make this far more secure for you and all this sensitive data that you have in AI, because we know that there's far more data in AI than you think there is. So let's switch off bedrock and let's talk about Q or quick suite. So in case you're not aware of this, recently, Amazon combined Amazon Q and Amazon QuickSight, and it's now called Amazon quicksuite, because if you've been around AI for the last year and a half, you know that everything gets renamed every week. So that's that's what's happened here. We are just as guilty of it. I'm always yelling at our at our product management about the same thing. So I do want to just spend a minute talking about what, what AWS is actually doing here. Look, it goes beyond just being an agent, like bed, like bedrock or something like that, and it creates charts and automates tasks and actually build apps and does all that for you. It pulls the data from all these different locations, brings it all in together, and does all the indexing and makes it easy to manipulate the data. One of the really cool things it does with this business intelligence is that it has this concept of something called spaces, which you're actually going to see in a second. And so you can have these different kind of areas that users can use together, and they can have access to all the same data. It really makes things useful. So now that we've kind of looked at quick suite, let's talk about how o plays into this. So quick sweet is obviously a great tool. I'm a huge fan, but to be honest with you, it lacks some of the automated security that's really important. It doesn't have lifecycle management. It doesn't do a lot of those things that we all take for granted, especially we've been doing using a private doctor for years, and then, at some level, it's also missing some ease of use pieces, and we'll handle those as well. Our goal is to make it better, safer and easier, and frankly, that's what we've done. We wrap a security blanket around all of your sensitive data so that you can you can access it and sleep at night knowing that your rag isn't giving out corporate secrets to people who shouldn't get it. So really quickly, let's talk about how we do that. First, we make it better. If you're familiar with Okta, for example, you're familiar with our concept of group automation and taking data from a source of truth, so that everybody in marketing and everybody in sales is in different groups, and those groups can be sent over through identity, through AWS, I am identity center, and we can use those groups to decide who has access to what data inside a quick fleet, for example. They can also do self service so they need access to something more specific that we can't figure out. We can have a request path that says, hey, I need access to, I don't know, Project queue. And when that happens, that gets approved, and then they get access to it. All that's done can be done inside of Okta. We Make It Safer by layering things like phishing resistant, multifactor authentication, self service requests, full automation of moves, ads and changes, which you're familiar with if you've used Okta before, and then attestation, having somebody check and make sure the users who have access to sensitive information should have that access on an ongoing basis, unless we make it easier, and I'll show you this in the demo, but we do one click access to Q. All of you guys have probably used, or most of you have used. I am identity center. And for technical people, it's fine, right? I don't even care. I go on there. There's 16 different things. I've got 26 different roles. I know what I'm looking for. It's fine. You put end users in that it's scary, and we avoid that completely and dump them straight into quick suite, which I'll show you. And then, of course, self service we've talked about. So I've been baiting you for the last two minutes here about a demo. So let's actually take a look at one. So in this demo, we're going to walk through how quick suite uses different users in different ways, and how they have access to different data. And you're going to see how Okta makes sure the right users have the right access to the right data. Again, better, safer, easier. The very first thing we're going to do, hopefully, again, should have put something in these demos. So I know it started. We'll find out. There we go. Okay, so the first thing we're going to do is log in again. We're going to use Okta, fission resistant MFA. In this particular case, we're using biometrics. That's Touch ID on Mac. Now this user is logged in. This is a brand new hire, and they're going to ask some questions to the chat bot that adds a back end of a bunch of it information. In this case, they need to know, how do they set up mail on their laptop and their iPhone? Right? Pretty common stuff that all users do. So they're going to go ahead and ask that what's happening on the back end is we've set a bunch of data for IT operations that everybody has access to, so they can ask these questions and get good information back. And you can see that's exactly what's happening here. It's pulled that information. It's summarized that. It's told them how they can do that and how they can get everything that they need. And there's a bunch of useful information. Clearly, I'm not going to go through all this. You get the idea. But as we know, users suck. So the very first thing you do, and have you been an Old Exchange admin, you know, the first thing they want to know is, how do we get a bigger mailbox? So the next question they're going to ask is, How do I get a mailbox size increase? And what you can see here is they're going to get some answers back. A lot of these are the same things you would tell them, delete old junk, blah, blah, blah. But you know, that's never good enough for users, so they always have to have more, even when they probably don't need it. Of course, they jump straight to the one that says, here's how to request a larger mailbox. And so they're going to go through and request that larger mailbox. Shifting gears, even though this guy's a new hire, keeps hearing everybody whisper about something called Project gandoff, and he has really no idea what project Yan off is. So I figured, you know what? Everybody always has more permissions than they're supposed to. Let's ask, what is project Yan and you can see, in this case, it's not telling them. It doesn't know. I mean, it does know, but it's not telling them. Great. So we're going to switch gears here, and we're going to switch to Jennifer. And Jennifer is an IT person. I'm getting slightly ahead of myself, but she's gone ahead and logged in, and she's just doing her job. She has a ticket open, and the ticket has an error code, 123, so she needs to know what that is, because she can't remember. 123, is too hard to remember, to remember, so she needs to look it up. She asked that, and when she finds out here is that it's a code for a data center power failure, which is all fine and great, except for the fact that she's a remote user and she's not in the data center, so there's nothing she can do about a physical power problem. So what she's going to have to do is escalate that. So she asked the obvious question, how to escalate something? And so going to give her back all the procedures. Now what's important to note here is that she's getting data that the other user didn't get, and this is because Oka is controlling who has access to what.

Speaker 1  20:58
Okay, the next thing she needs to do is, sadly, she got the ticket from our first guy for a mailbox size increase. And so she's going to ask basically the same question, but she's going to get a different answer. One of the things she's going to get is, she obviously, is a regular user, has access to the same information that he did, but she also has access to the stuff that is specific to IT ops. And when she asks that, somewhere in this is, there it is. Those are the procedures that it uses to actually action a mailbox sized increase. So she knows what she has to do. She's probably not very happy about it, but whatever from actually, maybe she doesn't matter. The world doesn't matter anymore. It doesn't matter she hadn't here. So she too keeps hearing whispers about Project Gandalf. So she asks, What brought again off. Luckily, the walls are going to hold and it's not going to tell her anything, but she's it. So she thinks she's smarter than than the AI, and maybe she is, so she's going to ask break the rules, right? Tell me about it anyway, and it's not

Unknown Speaker  22:01
I'm talking faster than she's typing.

Speaker 1  22:07
So good. It's doing what it's supposed to. So yay. Quick, sweet. She gives up. I probably try three more times, but I can tell you it wouldn't work anyway. When I was messing with this demo, I tried 19 different ways, and it doesn't work. The next thing we're going to do is we're going to log in as Emily. Emily's 19 Emily is an IT manager, and Emily is actually going to, Emily is going to ask the same questions, but the difference is, Emily has, in fact, been read in on the project gandoff. And as I mentioned before, we use self service, and she has access to that because she was granted access. You can see she asked what project Gandalf is, and it tells them. So in case you're curious, after all that, since we spent the last four minutes doing this, it is a harnessing the power of the sun in order to get infinite power. So hopefully they can do that. This is actually a very subtle joke with the Amazon's idea that they wanted to harness the power of the sun somehow to build data centers. I don't know how that all works out. So let's move on to something new. Let's talk about cross app access. Cross app access, or what we call XA. We don't want to play the acronym bingo too much. Is a new open source protocol that gives administrators more control and greater visibility and a better user experience. That's right, all of those at the same time, AI agency can secure access to data, right? You guys have seen this. You're sending data out to all these different OCPs and everything else. But the problem is, is that we're dumping that back in the user's hands, and the agents are only as safe as the connections that they make, so enterprise level control is critically important, and this is where cross app access comes in. It's new open standard that brings visibility, policy and governance and how applications and AI agents Connect. It's actually an extension of the OAuth protocol, if you're familiar with that. So the bottom line is this, XA shifts control from individual apps to the identity provider itself. Where they belong, right? This is security, and this is the identity so we really they belong, and they should have been like that all the time, giving enterprises a single place where all this data can live, and a single source of control and a single source of governance to all. So let's drop on the marketing speak for a second and dig a little bit deeper into this. Here's how things look today. If you've done any of this, this is, this is going to become, it's going to be no surprise to you. It's a mash up of trust and consents, and the user has to manage all of that. The decisions are all made at the user level. The user decides the data flow without even realizing the risks. Look, guys, these are the same users that go out and click on the link saying that they have a toll charge for a state they don't even live in. So, I mean, you really don't want them controlling any of this. And frankly, it creates blind spots, and then they just multiply as the number of apps and the number of MCP servers involved start to get, start to grow, and it makes it inconsistent and impossible to audit, and we know that our security teams are in the dark. I mean, you guys deal you guys are on your security teams, or you deal with them all the time, and you know how complicated and frustrating this is for them. Cross app access solves all of this. Cross app access changes that model completely and turns it on its ear. Instead of users approving connections individually, the identity provider becomes the decision point. Admins are then able to define

Unknown Speaker  25:32
the policies once centrally,

Speaker 1  25:36
ensuring consistent and policy driven access across every app and AI agent, it eliminates the consent screens, right? How many of you guys, generally would just like to never see the consent screens anymore? I'm very tired of them. I see them all the time, and it gives teams full visibility into what they're connected to and auditability at the same time, so every connection is authorized, logged and controlled. So let's take a look at how this technically works. The protocol works with apps and Agent building platforms as well as identity providers. And here's how it works. The requesting app needs data. They go to the it to the IDP itself on the back end, and a special access grant is an ID Jag, as opposed to a static token is minted. The resource app validates that grant and issues a scoped and auditable token governed by enterprise policy. And by the way, the same exact framework I just talked about works identically with MCP as well. The good news is this is an open source standard. Hawk has championed this, but everyone can use this, which is great. AWS has already talked to them on how they want to, you know, integrate this better with bedrock. It does already work, but it can be better. So with this, we know that every AI driven interaction is authenticated, auditable, and governed by enterprise identity, and it's securing the entire enterprise and all the data. Let's take a look at a level deeper and look specifically into AI. So cross on access is essential to the future of enterprise AI. It replaces static API tokens and policy driven identity with policy driven Identity Aware access. Access is granted just in time and is scoped precisely for the action. So no more users thinking, Well, gosh, I guess that's what it needs. Now you know, and now your users already know, cross app access ensures compliance by enforcing enterprise wide authorization standards, reducing the number and the consent fatigue that happens to our users, and making all this done in enterprise level. So with that, I'll bet you want to know more. So I've got two QR codes here, whether you're building with AWS bedrock or quick suite or your own AI agents, you can start securing your systems with cross app access now, and stop using static keys and instead replace them with app level trust or not. Available across excuse me, cross app access. So for developers, you can get ahead of this by building with cross app access. The left QR code, you can scan that, and you'll get information on how to some documentation, some videos and all that. On the right, if you're already an on zero customer, then you can get cross app access at the box. All you have to do is join the beta, and you can do that by going to the link on the right. So with that, let's take a take a look at a quick demo of this. So let's set this up. What we're doing here is, this is a AI bot with a back end of something of a to do list, right? This is all very simple stuff. It's not meant to be some whiz bang amazing thing. It's meant to show you what this is actually doing. This has bedrock and Okta all working together without burdening and bugging the user with a bunch of consent, and still making sure that all the data is secure. So the very first thing that we're going to do is we're going to log in. In this particular case, this access called to do zero, you're very creatively called to do zero is going to log in, and what you're going to see is it's actually going to log in through octave. So here we're going to see, I hope, the

Unknown Speaker  29:11
user trying to log in. There we go.

Speaker 1  29:19
It's weird that these are positive. I thought, sorry about that. I don't know why it's doing that. In a case, the user is going to go ahead and log in and you're going to see a familiar Okta login screen. Here, they'll log in with Fastpass. If you're not familiar. This is fish resistant. MFA, great. All that's fine. We do this inner sleep. So that's pretty common. Now, there's nothing on my to do list now, so let's add a couple of things. First, let's add, I don't know, something I forgot about my to do list. I'm I have a terrible memory, by the way. So this is, this is something I actually require. And then let's add that one thing that I meant to do. And then, just because we always have to screw things up, that one thing I forgot I already did.

Unknown Speaker  30:11
Oh, wait, I already did that. So let's mark that one as complete,

Speaker 1  30:17
perfect. So now we're going to go over into the chat bot, and the first thing we're going to do is we're actually going to do is we're actually going to connect this on the back end. So what's happening here is that this application is now running and it's now connecting to bedrock on the back end. Now obviously a token needs to be minted when this happens, but what you're going to notice here is that no consent is being done, and that's because cross app access is handled that on the back end, because we've already told it that that particular token and this particular system is accepted. The next thing we're going to do is we're going to connect it to initialize and connect it to the IDP, once you've done that really quick there if you see where it says unauthorized but when I refreshed it we now have an access token, feel free to write that access token down you can break into my system anytime you.

Speaker 1  31:04
Be interesting to make that happen with that. Let's go ahead and ask a couple of questions. The first we want, first thing we're going to ask is, what's on my to do list? And you can see that's the same list we saw before, even including the one that was already done. So all of that, and all the rights and privileges and needs have all been taken care of. But what about if we have to go the other way? Now, remember, normally we would then have to consent the other direction, but that's not going to happen here. What we're going to do is we're going to add something to the list, and we're going to say, call my boss. I personally always get in trouble with my boss because I don't call him, and he's always like, Why didn't you call her? Tell me that he's not here this week. So it's okay. So we've gone ahead and that's been added to the to do list. Let's go over to our to do app, and what you're going to see when we refresh that is that our new to do list item is on awesome. So if you look, it's really hard to see it was just there for a second. The very bottom left corner, you can see that that one is called, is ID number seven. So let's go back to the chat bot. And again, we're getting we're we're granting it. We would normally need to grant it more rights to do this, but because we have, at an enterprise level, told it, these are the rights that it's allowed to have, we're just going to go ahead and do that. So we're going to tell it, please mark to do task number seven, done, which is exactly what we've done here and now it says it's done.

Unknown Speaker  32:30
So we'll go back, we'll refresh one more time,

Speaker 1  32:35
and we will see that that one's done as well. So the important thing here is not that this is some whiz bang app that I wrote. It's actually something we wrote for 20 minutes with when I buy coding. But the point is, is that what you're seeing is that all these different pieces are all working together, and it's work, and it's from an IT security perspective, we have taken the lead on that, and we have chosen what works and what doesn't work so the users don't have to deal with it at all. So with that, let's actually turn it over, and we're going to talk to to Joe frisk about dime rents and some of the things that that he's done to manage all this. And Tara, I'm going to actually, we'll give that to her real quick. Sorry about that, so that I can actually take a minute so all you can have, you can have the mic.

Speaker 4  33:18
Okay, so we're here with Joe from dime brands. So Joe, could you start by describing the key strategic imperatives that led you to focus on internal digital transformation and employee experience and what success looks like across your various user population.

Speaker 3  33:37
Thank you for that. Poor Joe's been sitting here for half an hour before he gets a start. I you know what? I think the first piece is, you know, we came from an environment where our structure is set up. And I know I mentioned before dying brands is the the franchisee leader for Applebee's and IHOP, and they're pretty popular brands, so hopefully you've heard of them, and if not, you should visit one but the the franchisee model kind of put us in a position where we needed to manage identities in three different buckets. We needed to manage identities from a corporate perspective. So dime brands, corporate so called, 1000 identities, and then our restaurants and our restaurants, about 65,000 identities across our Restaurant Brands, and then, of course, our guests. So we have loyalty programs, just a little bit over 20 million loyalty guests that log in, about 70,000 per day into our systems. And so we had disparate systems. We had disparate access controls and management of identity that were just they weren't in a healthy place. And there was a sentiment just before the most latest IHOP loyalty program was released in 2022 that we don't want to release another loyalty program because the identity experience was so so poor. Sign up, the abandon rates were very high, 60, 70% because people were frustrated. The the idea of trying to enforce an MFA concept was very difficult for not just our restaurant employees, but our guests in the restaurants. And so the challenge was, how do we centralize something that has the same identity approach, and how do we make the user experience better? So I think that was the most important thing for us at that point in time, and and so that's actually what, what began our journey there, from an AI perspective, the leadership team was extremely excited about just super charging personalization, like, what can we do to if you walk into a restaurant and You can log into your program, your your loyalty program, it'll automatically tell the wait, wait, wait staff is my allergies or my preferences or and all of that can be skipped to you know when they come over, and they can say, Tara, thank you for coming. We know you like this type of pancake, and we can actually then customize the experience. So I think that that was really the pieces of user experience was very important. And I think as we rolled out our product, the products in a decentralized manner, we were able to see that.

Speaker 1  36:41
So first of all, I'm glad we ate before we came, because now all this is making me hungry, and so we won't get into that. But look, you've been working on a lot of things. It's actually quite a lot in such a short period of time. It's pretty impressive. And the fact that you're able to put the company first is also really, really great, and it's refreshing, because we don't see that a lot. We see you got to put this first and that first, but putting the customer first and making sure they're getting what they need is, I think it's really good, so you should be commending for that. So I do have one question before you kind of built all this, what were the biggest friction points for either your your employees or your franchisees, and kind of how they they would access these job tools?

Speaker 3  37:22
You know, I would say one of the challenges is, is a rollout approach that kind of takes into account kind of the three different objectives from from, meaning corporate versus franchisee management and restaurant management. And, you know, guests that go to the restaurant and kind of getting a thing that getting a process that's very intuitive. And so one of the things that we did was we fully automated the entire provisioning, de provisioning approach across all three I'll call them segments, because we segmented everything out, and we are 99% automated. So from a from a life cycle management perspective, with full password synchronization. So I and then we've also onboarded all of our applications for an SSO perspective. So the the experience from whether I'm a restaurant employee or I'm a corporate user, it's all branded, centralized, and it's it's automated, and that allowed me to reduce or reinvest the resources from the security team in some other areas, I could look a little bit more proactively and start to plan out kind of, some of the future vision which would be around our objectives to get rid of passwords altogether. So that's that's really kind of what so our current experience being, how can we make this as frictionless as possible? And then also for our guests? Just the concept of having an MFA for a guest was not something the leadership team wanted to embrace. And so one of the challenges we were having as well is that, you know, user x had their account with Advanced Auto Parts, and it got compromised, and that same ID and password was used for IHOP. And then, of course, there was impacts and implications. So we were able to enable adaptive MFA, which we're really happy about, because now we're only looking at, you know, on impossible travel and device changes, and we can do challenging challenges. From that perspective, I think the other piece too was the leadership team wanted to make sure that all types of users that go to the restaurants are included, so the older population and younger populations, from both the passkey perspective and full MFA,

Speaker 4  39:55
that's definitely like a lot of success that you've been seeing, especially in personalization too. That leads us to our next step. So you've seen success with Amazon Q, which is a pretty impressive efficiency win when rolling out powerful new applications like you, what role does your centralized identity and access management strategy play in ensuring that only authorized agents can use it and that the login experience is still simple and

Unknown Speaker  40:24
fast, I would say the full

Speaker 3  40:28
common experience across all applications, I think, has been really helpful. I also really like the idea that once, if we have to provision someone access, they can only see what they need, so they open up their application portfolio, and then what's what's available to them based on their role. It's it's available. So I think that's heavily valued, I think from a perspective of of just AI solutions in general, we it's the same answer. As far as we have solutions that we want to get efficiency in finance, in HR, but we also want to the efficiencies from the restaurant. So, you know, a Door Dash driver pulls up and parks in the parking lot. We can take camera screenshot of their license plate. We can match that back to the Door Dash, and when they come into the restaurant, the meal is ready, so things like that, or even intelligent information that will weigh your food to make sure that it matches to what your order is. So we have all different types. We I would say we started the journey from an AI perspective in our pipeline, from an internal and external perspective, and our identities, we were like 2025, identities when we first started, and we're well over. We're in the hundreds now, so we're quickly increasing. So the silly thing that we did was we created an org chart for our AI identities. And that way we could say, okay, in marketing, we have these bots, we have these agents, we have these these capabilities, and we would name them all, you know, like with their the intent and possible outcomes. So we have a risk level understanding. And so when we could, when we're starting to look at identity from an organizational perspective, it gave us that where, even though it's, you know, a non human account, we start treating it more like a human. We start thinking about it a little bit more more around intent and possibility, as we start to, you know, evaluate that footprint.

Speaker 1  42:32
So as obviously, you can probably guess, I'm a big Q and quick suite fan, so I love what you've done. I think that's really cool. And some of the things you've done, they just seem so obvious, but no one ever thinks of these things, which is, which is really great that you've done that. So I know having all this sensitive information floating around brings kind of one more question to mind, and that is, how is identity management different for your partners and your employees and your franchisees, and making sure that you have a consistent and secure, brand aligned experience? I know we've talked a lot about that today, so I'd love to get your two cents worth

Speaker 3  43:03
on that. Yeah, I think it's it is important for us to maintain a brand presence for if I'm an IHOP employee, their entire login experience, their intranet, their everything that they need to go after, feels and looks like that. It's branded for them. They don't know that behind the scenes is, you know how it's been configured. I think that that's one of the first equation, plus we use terminology that's more relevant to that user population, which I think is also, you know, if we some of the terms that are used in our business terms and acronyms, we'll make sure we spread those out accordingly. And, you know, just to touch on it, you know, from a bot perspective, even internally, if someone wants to know something about a policy or a menu item or whatever it may be, they can engage and they can ask, okay, I want you to make this because we try to, you know, change up recipes and things of that nature. So how do I make this dish, or what have you, or what's the impact of the cost increases of eggs, for example? How is that going to impact us? And restaurant owners can start planning that accordingly. So there's so many different variations of how we want to use the technology in that

Speaker 4  44:29
way. So we kind of talked about the challenges and success you've seen. Now let's talk about the future. So where do you see the future of the digital employee experience at dine brands, and what is the next major challenge or opportunity on your roadmap? And I ask a lot of questions, but where do you see the modern identity management and AI intersecting to solve that challenge in the next one to two years?

Speaker 3  44:57
I think that, you know, we've seen with the from a restaurant perspective, we've seen this significant shift to off premise digital channels, especially post pandemic. So I would say we were 95% in restaurant pandemic hit and it goes up to 20% and we're finally finding that that variation, I am completely surprised to see how many people order pancakes at home. So, you know, we continue to lean in on personalization. I think that's one of the really big components. But also efficiency. We look at robotics from a perspective of kitchen efficiency. We look at just everything from the marketing perspective, you happen to be driving by or near the area, and you typically come in around that time, we might send you a text, or, you know, kind of we want to, we want to do things that are lined up to the right moment and the right messaging, and then internally, self service as much as we can, as You know, from from a perspective of of how to internally service, from what type of jobs do you have to, you know, what kind of products do I get to buy if I want to buy a new laptop internally? All the way to how we're using with with security, so natural language, and the more we can get further and further with natural language and alerting, we can get closer to that continuous alerting and identifying threats immediately. So I think it's shifting the paradigm for us that we're embedding risk into our equation. We are leaning in on identity governance, but anything that's real time or continuous. So a lot of the thematic analysis or assessments that we do are typically point in time we want to get to continuous. You know, one of the things we find is we we purchase a product, and we evaluate it, and then it gets implemented, and then two months later, there's all this new AI functionality and feature that is now being enabled and empowered in the within the company. So now, many times we don't detect that right away, and so we want to make sure that we see if there's behavior of applications shift or change, or applications and IDS shift and change that we get. We know it immediately. So I think that that that shift is something that we're seeing. And then back to, you know, frictionless, we are absolutely going to be passive with this. The concept is something that, I think, from a corporate perspective, is fantastic. We love to get that way to to even further. Would reduce the, you know, Password Reset options, even though it's not overly impactful at the moment, but I would say that's one of the number one reasons people call a help desk. So, you know, we start looking at, where can we find efficiencies, not just with our business operations, but our internal corporate operations.

Speaker 1  48:08
So look, Joe, I love hearing about all the things that you're doing, and one of the things I appreciate the most is a lot of the things that we see a lot of our customers talking about wanting to do, you're already doing, or well, down those down that that that process. So I think it's really useful for everybody to kind of hear of that. So with that said, I want to thank you. We really appreciate your time. This has been, I think, super informative, and I appreciate your candor on top of everything else. And with that, let's kind of wrap things up, and then we'll ask, we'll take questions in just a second. Look for all of you guys, I hope this has been really informative, and would love to talk to you more. We will be at our booth later this afternoon. We are 339, kind of on the sphere side of the expo hall. You can also follow us on social media. Of course, we'd appreciate that. And lastly, you can follow the QR code. I promise it is not sketchy, really.

Unknown Speaker  49:06
I need anybody have any questions at all? Sure, go ahead. Welcome folks.
